# Migration guide for open-condo-software condo platform

During the development of every product there are days when you need to change some approach, fix an old bug or add an opportunity for expansion. 

This document will outline the steps required to migrate to major versions.

- [# From version v2.x.x to version v3.x.x](#from-version-v2xx-to-version-v3xx)


## From version v2.x.x to version v3.x.x

In the new v3 release, we plan to expand the list of options for using key-value storage.
This change will open up possibilities for both the choice of engine and the topology of your storage build.

We are going to migrate key-value storage from single node setup (at the moment it is the Redis engine) to clustered ValKey. The reasons for this decision are the following facts:

- Easy horizontal storage scaling
- High fault tolerance
- Possibility of placing data in several data centers/different machines

In this case, the first thing that is incompatible with the Redis/Valkey cluster is virtual databases. 

So if you have plans to move your key-value storage from standalone instance to a clustered one is add prefixes to all of your applications to make sure you don't have any correlations or corruptions of the data.

For that reason all keys generated by Redis/Valkey adapter will be prefixed with application name. So, if you call ```redis.set('test', 1)``` result will be ```condo:test -> 1``` 

Enough of the lyrics, let's get down to action!

### Zero downtime migration

This option is suitable if you have serious traffic on the application and you cannot afford the application to be down for a few minutes.

1) Add ```REDIS_FALLBACK_CONFIG='{"enabled": true}'``` to your application environment via .env file or something similar
2) Restart app -> now app automatically prefix all write operations, but read operations will be retried without prefix if that key wasn't found.
3) Run migration, that contains script ```rename-redis-keys.js``` via command ```yarn workspace @app/condo migrate``` (for condo application it'll be  ```20250124162345-0446_auto_20250124_1123.js```)
4) After migration succeeded -> remove ```REDIS_FALLBACK_ENABLED=true``` env and restart application again 

If you already use your own prefix for keys - you can also configure the adapter for migration using the following configuration:
```REDIS_FALLBACK_CONFIG='{"enabled": true, "prefix": ""}'```


### Migration with downtime

If you don't need to perform updates without downtime, you can choose this option.

1) Perform a complete stop of the application
2) Apply new migrations via ```yarn workspace @app/condo migrate```
3) Run application as usual ```yarn workspace @app/condo start```


